this video is brought to you by
Squarespace there has arguably never
been a human civilization in history
that did not exist under the threat of
vampires in a universal context they
represent our fears of not only death
but unrest in death though it's one of
those arose By Any Other Name kind of
things where monsters we may
anthropologically recognize as vampires
were not the sexy murderous or twinkly
vampires we know of today Proto vampires
of the ancient world had any range of
characteristics and creation stories
some Proto vampires being blessed or
cursed by gods or hearkened to fears of
the unburied Dead especially looking
toward peoples in East Asia and the
indigenous people of Australia and the
Americas there was almost always some
kind of creature or Monster which
combined elements of undeath the
consumption of the living and the
shunning of the sun when we observe
historic vampires we observed the fear
and what the fear was usually meant to
indicate usually vampiric fables served
the the utility of spooking a society
into proper burial rights and to avoid
cannibalism being unable to walk in
sunlight though that was probably more
of a symbolic gesture light specifically
the sun in almost all pre-christian and
pre-colonial societies represented the
highest good or capital T truth Sun gods
were usually the highest deity in a
given Pantheon the Ancients very quickly
recognize that especially in the context
of Agriculture the sun is kind of
important for almost almost everything
and so by the power of the sun ancient
gods allowed those great civilizations
to flourish so that what was outside of
the realm of what the gods considered
holy was associated with Darkness the
Proto vampire and by extension the
vampire proper was shunned from the sun
because they either represented
something the public could recognize as
evil or because they had by action or
accident done something to earn the
God's rejection some Gods also preferred
to keep their followers in the dark
however take for instance the goddess
Hecate she was in addition to the
helenic pantheon from Indo-European
migrants and in spite of the fact that
her domain of magic and the moon were
already covered by Artemis and Seline
she became a permanent fixture and was
even translated into the Roman goddess
trivia goddesses of the dark were
usually tied to the Moon an indication
that even in the night there remained a
Holy Light from an alternative Source
hecate's distinction was that she was
more closely associated with The Rustic
Gods than the proper Olympians closely
associated with the god pan as
occasionally a maternal figure that said
he enjoyed widespread and prominent
Urban worship particularly in Athens
really interesting goddess for both her
role in the pantheon but as well as the
historic movements of her myths across
the Mediterranean she also had a cult of
witches who ate dead babies allegedly it
should be no surprise that in helenic
myth hecate's daughter empusa was the
bronze legged vampire who fed on the
blood of men she would seduce the
particular fear hearkens to ancient
gree's repulsion of a powerful
independent woman this also applies to
The Witches of thessaly the baby MERS of
course any woman who seeks power outside
the institutional misogyny of ancient
helis will be accused of heinous acts
meanwhile the first female Presidential
nominee from a major political party was
also accused of eating babies it's been
5,000 years guys get something original
for this isn't to say that the muai are
the sole progenitors of vampires but the
impact that a bunch of pagan homosexuals
had on shaping subsequent Millennia of
Christian European culture is
immeasurable it's remarkable just how
much of the UI is recognizable in
Victorian depictions of vampires that
said the values were slightly shifted
whereas the gothic writers of Europe
focused on depicting nocturnal Predators
the Ancients downplayed this next to
please don't have sex with dead things
the monotheistic colonization of Europe
and Africa removed competing gods and
with the god of Abraham the sole deity
coming to a parallel association with
the sun Europe found itself without any
Divine protection in the night such as
Moon Gods imagery around the Christian
God is so quintessentially tied to
sunlight that he may as well have been
seen as a Sun God himself which is also
weird because by Catholic Doctrine he is
also a triple deity for which triple
deity ities were predominantly women
including Hecate herself and the Morgan
who were both associated with magic
magic which is considered Unholy because
of its association with the moon anyway
within Christian literature there is a
strong connection between God and the
light of day look to the fairy queen a
staple of formative English literature
published in 1590 an indicative of the
Norman re-evaluation of English
mythological sensibilities away from the
Norse and Germanic roots of the
Anglo-Saxon replacing it with a
mythological cycle that is more
traditionally French this text makes
frequent Illusions to light and darkness
dark forests and Wilderness is where the
heroic Red Cross finds denisons that are
malevolent and who reject God and these
denzin May challenge his chivalry or
tempt him away from God's grace or to
Catholicism which according to the
anglicans was evil and while this isn't
really about vampires it does exemplify
the Christian affinity for holding that
the Unholy is that which exists without
God's light but this does apply to
vampires in a more European context for
which our analysis shifts from the Proto
vampires that can be identified in most
historic cultures to the creatures that
come to mind with the word vampire
Europe's christianization brought about
a closer association between the
nighttime and the Monsters of all kinds
for which even The Arcadian origins of
the werewolf were used to taint the
cycles of the Moon Moon the vampire's
distance from the literal object of
sunlight representing the figurative
element of God's light was a method for
European communities and leaders to
indirectly though very clearly
articulate what values they wanted to
highlight as evil just as the ancient
Greeks wanted to instill a culture with
fear of a woman seductress by plainly
associating her with the Demonic urge to
eat babies the European vampires
predatory nature and relegation to the
Shadows which were inaccessible to God
was a free license to associate all
things outside of the social norm and
connect it with evil it's like McCarthy
era how to spot a communist
instructional videos the villagers of
Europe would keep an eye on their Lords
and neighbors and cautionary fables of
the vampire would help them identify
deviant Behavior which they would then
report to their local Parish snitching
it's in white people's DNA the vampire
became a method of exploring these
provocative desires in a coded fashion
however true to the hay code
resemblances these desires had to be
expressed in line with contemporary
European values of the day the monster
the sexual deviant must be brutalized
it's no surprise that many vampires are
found out due to their lurd sexual
overtones especially as they became
increasingly connected to a kind of
extravagant sexual predator who exists
in opulence and lavishness vampires came
to represent the urban Predator compared
to the werewolves and ghosts of the
countryside so naturally vampires are
from an anthropological Viewpoint an
excellent symbol of a society's
Collective fears of who exactly is an
other for the helenic it was the Single
Ladies within the public Circles of the
1700s and onwards regardless of what was
going on in the manners of the wealthy
there was an intense public fear of
sexuality and as would develop
throughout the 1800s an intense push for
Conformity to heteronormative sexual
standards and gender roles which was
when the vampire had its greatest Heyday
in storytelling and became a staple of
Gothic literature and folklore alike at
least until now but before we sink our
teeth into the soft flesh of that let's
hear a word from this video's sponsor
Squarespace this video is brought to you
by Squarespace Squarespace is an
all-in-one web design and hosting
platform that makes it easy for you to
create a website and Market your brand
with industry-leading website templates
that are EAS to customize you don't need
any design experience to show the world
your best digital self Squarespace also
makes it easy to keep in touch with your
audience or customers with their
expertly designed email templates that
are just as easy to customize as their
websites you can follow up with
customers or just keep your audience in
the loop with your latest updates that's
why we're launching a newsletter with
certain social media sites going the way
of the dodo we wanted a way to keep in
touch with our amazing subscribers and
Squarespace gives us the perfect way to
do that in fact you can sign up for our
newsletter right now which will include
links to new videos progress updates for
T's pictures as well as reviews articles
and so much more you can sign up for
free at our Squarespace website
jameson.com you can head to
squarespace.com right now for a free
trial and when you're ready to launch
your site go to squarespace.com
jameses that's j m s to save 10% off of
your first purchase of a website or
domain start showing the world how
amazing you are today with
Squarespace
somehow we ended up with what we do in
the shadows well the series which is
what is under discussion today was
originally a companion spin-off to the
New Zealand independent film by Tao with
Titi it has likely since eclipsed the
original content both in the range of
Side characters settings and World
building but also in terms of how
strongly this improv based comedy series
has endured Five Seasons without any
sign of slowing down but what makes this
series so important to vampires like me
well sure it plays off a bunch of
vampire Aesthetics and traits which
point out how incoherent the collective
vampire Mythos is somehow it all finds a
way into this comedic parody and the
absurdity of it all just adds to the
comedy making these real people who
areound by certain vampiric
rules do you think maybe you could let
me into your shelter of
automobiles what oh yeah come on in of
course and yes as the series goes on
it's been confirmed that each one of the
main characters is some varant an
intensity of queer not that it really
needed to be confirmed but it's nice to
have these outspoken queer characters
who are queer without being preachy but
Thea make sure that they remember the
part about me telling them that I'm gay
so I mean who isn't gay a lot of people
oh okay woohoo I'll get the trumpets out
sorry however what we do vampires marks
a titular turning point in how our
culture has come to understand vampires
a precipice that has been thousands of
years in the making and this comes down
to how the show frames and displays
these vampires the series is a
documentary style comedy featuring
frequent cutaways confessional segments
where the vampires address the audience
directly in order to offer additional
elaboration on either elements of the
show or how the history of vampiric
folklore manifests in the modern day
half the bats you see they are just
vampires that have thrown terrible ories
and they are too ashamed to regain their
vampire form so they just split around
shame bats bats full of Shame game the
general premise of the show is a little
bit more laxed than the movie the series
does have the overarching plot line of
Gamo saying can I has vampire aside from
that the show is about a collection of
Roommates who are struggling with the
drags of eternal life in modern America
each of these roommates can be seen as a
typification of the various sub genres
of vampires with a couple of recurring
characters filling in the gaps the
comedic sensibilities come from a gross
defamiliarization and demystification of
the vampire Mythic itself what do we do
in the shadows more or less what normal
people do but with a dash of chaotic
anachronisms I didn't know it would be
full of curses all we need to do is send
that to 10 friends or foes by samr and
the curse will be lifted where are we
going to get the email addresses the
email address shop first there's nandor
who is indicative of the kind of Vlad
tepus vampire which though he may have
been a distant inspiration for Count
Dracula reconnecting Dracula to the
warrior mythology wasn't something that
would be done until Francis Ford cop's
incredibly faithful retelling of the
story nandor The Relentless is a former
warlord of the fictional nation of
alanar kaven noak's portrayal of an
Impaler inspired vampire becomes a
commentary on the kind of person who
peaked at 17 when he scored a winning
touchdown and took his team to State
knowing that he can't relive The Glory
Days he struggles to find ways to feel
meaningful he knows he wants to do
something something important but he
doesn't really know what that is or how
to apply himself to the modern world in
order of who the gays are in a frenzy
over there's Naja Natasia dimitrio takes
on a more generalized take on the
Vampire Queen perhaps most clearly
drawing from the vampirus progenitor
Camilla Nao is also the title of the
1994 horror film about the daughter of
Count Dracula FYI the more you know this
is not that najer though who was born in
an impoverished Village on the Greek
island of anti pxa NAA is driven
ambitious capable and strongly indicated
to be the most rawly powerful vampire in
the household fearing only her sire the
baron ofas Darth Vader doesn't have [ __ ]
on her while Naja initially plays into
to the competent women among male idiots
Trope it's made abundantly clear that
she doesn't have her [ __ ] together at
all either in the slightest and is far
more dependent on her idiots and she
lets on Demetrio balances naja's
Incredible strength with the exact kind
of character FLA that most a type
personalities suffer from being a
complete hot [ __ ] mess something is
going very pits up with my life a third
housemate is playing off a lesser known
vampiric Tale the psychic vampire Colin
Robinson as such a vampire feeds off of
the Life Energy of someone rather than
waving his hands and using magic to
drain their life from someone Colin
Robinson feeds off of their heightened
emotions or just general annoyance he
goes about talking about random
information dumps that are tangentially
related to the topic at hand or by doing
naturally irritating things Colin
Robinson seems to be a one note
character at first from his introduction
though the show makes quick work of
highlighting just the level of absurdity
that this character offers to the show
less an allegory of an actual kind of
vampire and more so a comedic play about
a certain kind of person
TGIF it's 5:00
somewhere
D working hard or hardly work
we all know one if you know more than
two Canadians chances are you know an
energy vampire who do you think runs the
parliament Colin Robinson is a sheer
contrast to normal vampires like me who
Pride themselves on how interesting they
are to a psychic vampire being
interesting is detrimental to their
ability to feed says here that I am
100% white Colin Robinson is gray and
beige preferring Cardigans and sweater
vests where the others Dawn extravagant
gowns lavish multi-piece suit ensembles
and cir coats however it's not just
husband who is worth discussion for this
context llo cravensworth he is probably
the most memeable character of the show
if for no other reason than some very
strategic line deliveries it took
everyone a few episodes to really get
going but Matt Barry showed up on set
and had his character locked and loaded
from the very beginning the only Harry
frog I'm interested in my darling is the
one between your legs it's not just a
frog it's the whole swamp true if nandor
is indicative of a vampiric folk tale of
a reclusive cruel Baron and najja is the
Victorian vampiric seductress llo is a
satirical reflection of a vampire of the
late 20th century capturing the raw
excessive sensuality of an Rice's
vampires and those who she later
inspired but not the sparkly ones llo
has an extreme Comfort around sex that
would shock the public facade of any
British lawmaker of the 1800s or today
granted for their day job they'd
conveniently forget about the sexual
depravity that took part in the West End
the other vampires have their Ambitions
and objectives and Grand designs llo by
contrast seems entirely content with
where he is perfectly happy to spend his
days engaging not only in lurd act
varying intensities but bearing no
discrimination to any of it he also
partakes in any manner of art and
culture granted all the vampires are
very open about their sexuality and
sexual attractions so some of my wives
were good wives some of them were guy
wives it's not that different llo is the
sexual deviant the victorians feared so
deeply meanwhile he's the most harmless
of the group the most likely to form
human friendships and who seems to have
the lowest body count save for Colin
Robinson who does not need to kill his
victims to feed off of them though death
might be preferable in fact The Ensemble
of characters and the fact that it's
popular enough to assume that the
largest WTH of the rep public gets it
seems to indicate a shift not towards
how we think of vampires as a culture
but a shift in our very culture itself
vampires which were once decried as
monsters to whom social devians was
compared to a kind of cosmic treason
against the light of God are now
accepted as people with whom many of us
could see ourselves being friendly
regardless what we do in the shadow
seems to represent a most recent step in
our society dissemination of vampires
and not only what they mean to us but to
gauge the moral value that is placed on
the values that vampires represent
however with what we do in the shadows
seeming to typify so many vampire tropes
and reflect upon us our shifting
Evolution on the evaluation of these
social elements did these progenitors
actually carry this weight and what were
exactly the original progenitors of
these roommates to understand what these
vampires represent to our society we
first need to understand what those
vampires meant to
theirs the vampire enjoyed a period of
relative anonymity between Antiquity and
the Industrial Revolution being
creatures tied to Pagan deities they
fell to the Wayside in Lee of more
generalized Revenant zombies however
there were a large number of reported
vampire sightings in the 1700s coming
from the area of the Balan Peninsula
it's difficult to really gauge what
vampires meant to prearo Europeans
because the bulk of European fears were
attached to Witchcraft maybe Hecate and
her Single Ladies weren't on sabatical
after all however in light of
superstition migrating across Europe
with a flood of Eastern European
immigrants vampires very suddenly and
very quickly took the common folk by the
throat at the time there was a dualistic
fascination with Slavic culture that
came in tandem with the fear of those
foreign values passing into proper
European Society coupled of course with
a very Victorian fear of what they
described as social Decay whatever that
meant something about foundational
European values being abandoned for
radical new ideas which may have been at
the time code for being afraid of
immigrants but England has surely
shaking off that by now because the
Americas are any better and you know in
light of that perhaps the reason white
people people are so terrified of
immigrant cultures quote unquote
invading is because we subconsciously
are aware that it's exactly what we
white people did when we immigrated to
America maybe at any rate in perhaps in
line with this social Decay was a
growing trend of Rockstar poets who
wanted to write about sex but still
wanted to keep up Airs of being a
respectable gentleman in order to avert
censorship and Scandal they wrote this
subject of sexual Fascination into their
villains it's nothing short of
hypocritical that Lord Byron wrote of
empiric villain who fed on blood and
Chastity coincidental of course that he
himself was likened to a vampire by one
of his gay exes no less while the
vampire existed in poetry before then
Lord Byron's former personal physician
John palador published a short work of
Pros fiction in 1819 called the vampire
with a Y which also looking into it
there was like 12 poems called called
The Vampire before then palador was just
the first to set it to pros and the
first which specifically painted the
vampire as making his hunting ground out
to be the social Elite by masquerading
as one of them himself no longer semi-d
demonic cave dwellers roving the
countryside nor the reclusive occupants
of seemingly deserted manners and forts
there was only a brief transition
between the vampire of Southeastern
Europe and the High rolling lady killer
of palador palador vampire is Lord
rathen whose reputation in English High
Society warrants caution though the
novel's protagonist John I
mean Aubrey instigates himself with him
nevertheless Aubry is drawn to ruin on
an almost Supernatural level and while
he never is particularly threatened by
ruen he overlooks an apparent Darkness
Ruan and Aubrey go on a tour of Europe
as was a common Coming of Age ritual for
young affluent men of the day much in
the same way the palador and Byron found
themselves in a cottage on Lake Geneva
with Mary and Percy Shelly a famous late
spring trip which is cited as being the
conception for Frankenstein granted the
same-sex attraction between Ruan and
Aubry is
subtext but not really palador had to be
careful not to OD himself publicly or he
would suffer the same backlash that
Byron often received granted this was a
day and age where sexual perversion of
all kinds including gross heterosexual
promiscuity was on the same level as
buggery provided more research I would
like to see if people of the day just
took it for granted that a vampire Prov
ided promiscuity would also imply an
extension of sexual appetites to
same-sex desire as a piece of evidence
look to another and perhaps more
significant work of vampiric fiction
carmilla by Irish author Sheridan lafu
unlike palador there isn't really any
information to suggest that lafu engaged
in queerness in his own personal life
though his expression of same-sex desire
among women is more Stark than among
Camila's
vampers there may be a few reasons for
this inclusion perhaps because it was
European custom to tolerate close if not
intimate friendships Between Women
alternatively because in line with an
80s slasher movie reserving the most
brutal deaths for those committing
premarital sex Carmela herself is
brutalized in a way that was not
reserved for any vampires until Breaking
Dawn part two while it can be said that
the work is sympathetic to queer people
and that queerness itself is not the
element that is punished it can
alternately be observed that punishment
is reserved for the sexual aggressor in
order to protect Laura who represents
the naive delicate feminine
sensibilities that the victorians
praised so much the female vampire is
the ultimate predator and a staunched
challenger of the patriarchal order her
Allure her very presence poses a direct
threat as she seeks to penetrate her
male victims yet Carmela she operates
quite differently from the female
vampires we encounter in the tale of
Dracula later on you see Carmela Harbors
no desire for men when the vampire is a
lesbian she transforms into a harbinger
of Destruction targeting her fellow
women and subtly undermining the
foundations of heteronormative masculine
dominance Carmela presents the most
formidable challenge to the Norms of
heteronormativity due to her profound
desire for women and her steadfast
rejection of the patriarchal power
structure for her crime of Grand Theft
lesbian her hunters for she is hunted
first drive a stake through Carmela's
heart then decapitate her and finally
cremate her head and body upon a funeral
p and then they meticulously collect
every last trace of her ashes and
scatter them over a nearby River
ensuring that there is no possibility of
carmilla's remains reconstituting and
reanimating this procedure leaves no
room for doubt about Carmelo's final
demise Overkill much the link between
vampires and queerness was related
seemingly in so far as vampires
represented all manner of sexual
deviants though I can't help given the
volume of queer writers who seem to be
drawn to the vampire thinking that even
if just to read their ex's perhaps there
is something more to this I question
whether there was a portion of the
vampiric Mythos that functioned as a
beacon as if by some kind of code
vampires were symbols that
non-conformists could signal to one
another through their public masquerade
as monsters others within Society who
themselves were often compared to
monsters could be drawn towards like
minded spaces and through the Squall of
homophobic and quite frankly sex phobic
social conditioning the presence of this
violent myth presented a Gateway for the
imprudent to seek out one another among
the most significant elements of this
pattern
actually occurred in
1976 of course it was in godamn San
Francisco granted Interview with a
Vampire and an Rice have been under
discussion previously on this channel
whereas once needed to be vigilant of
vampire for their prowess over seduction
how would this pivotal component of
vampires manifest during the sexual
Revolution anr's Vamps are pivotal for
representing a shift in vampiric
perspectives this new vampire Louie sat
down for an interview once upon a time
and changed how we all thought of
vampires forever while vampires had been
sexual an rice was among the first to
make them sexy while Interview with the
Vampire was not an initial success
Chelsea Quin yarro St Germaine series of
central Romance Books began in
1978 and endured until 2014 Quinn being
a woman living near the San Francisco
Bay area of the 70s and writing about a
sensual French immigrant vampire in New
Orleans I guess Rice's vampires
specifically stood out because of her
focus on their beauty specifically larts
indeed when we first encounter lart
through the fevered lens of Louie who's
very depressed his depiction Bears an
uncanny resemblance to Lord 's portrayal
of Camila lat is described as fair
skinned possessing a graceful almost
feline quality in his movements and he's
even liken to an angel a far cry from
the beings distant from God's light
though granted the vampire had been
renowned to shroud itself in a curtain
of perceived piety another departure
from vampiric traditionalism is Rice's
insistence on the ritual to become a
vampire no longer can a vampire just
bite you and turn you into one quite
frankly it was never quite that clear
when a vampire bit to kill and when to
spread the curse it was all very
confusing with rice the vampiric
candidate must participate in the ritual
by consuming the blood of their sire and
while this speaks to a kind of mandate
for reciprocal consent it fits better
with the Victorian perspective on the
curse an individual who is forced into
vampirism is tragic and empathetic
though depicting each vampire as an
active participant in their own downfall
is what you get the tortures and
pitchforks for some Poetic Justice and
and make no mistake rice makes a point
of exemplifying that vampires without a
pulse cannot develop an erection however
feeding on one another is unmistakably
depicted as a sex act during the titular
interview Louie recounts I drank sucking
the blood out of the wounds experiencing
for the first time since infancy the
unique pleasure of drawing nourishment
the body wholly attune to the mind's
focus on a single vital Source oh yes
normal fatio wi seeing how the two
mysterious inaccessible handsome wealthy
bachelors in New Orleans suddenly find
themselves raising a forever child this
is unmistakably a queer allegory and for
anyone who had any lingering doubts we
have the recent television series
where
my my
yes vampires that [ __ ] AMC's rendition
of Interview with the Vampire is a
modern unflinchingly maab and
delightfully sexual reimagining of the
tale what was once subtext concerning
gay themes now stands boldly in the
foreground like a hardon painting the
picture of a dashing vampire in search
of more than just transient
companionship when lat de Leon cor
Whispers to Louis de Ponto about
Desiring an eternal counterpart it's
evident that he's not in the market for
just a FL mate this Immortal sanguinary
Duo is intriguingly queer identifying as
such and their interactions are not just
charged but are undeniably intense
passionate and occasionally interspersed
with the Crimson fluid of Life their
existence Beyond The vampiric Thirst
challenges the very fabric of human
convention interview gracefully dances
through a profound narrative
intertwining the complexities of
sexuality race identity dominance
and societal suppression through this
lens it underscores the history of
America and the constraints it has
placed on these magnificently queer
vampires forcing them into a dance of
audacious queerness and a myriad of
misdeeds in a way the concept of gay
vampires is intellectually appetizing
with eons at their disposal surely these
Immortal beings would indulge experiment
and embrace the fluidity of their
desires lat in his Grandeur perceives
vampires as beings Transcendent of mere
humans consequently they are unfettered
by the petty prejudices and insecurities
that plague mankind to them Concepts
like racism sexism and homophobia are
trivial for Humanity itself is deemed
inconsequential as a mortal Lou's queer
identity albeit concealed combined with
being black in a very racist America
relegates him to society's periphery lat
with his telepathic Lamentations
frequently underscores was the ignorance
and inelegance of racist humans who
demean Louie for the color of his skin
till a start the real grotesquery lies
within typical men in the realm of the
undead Louie is Unshackled from
Mankind's oppressive decrees no longer
ens snared by societal bindings and
racist overtones of the era in the tale
wo in an interview no narrator stands
unquestionably credible however Daniel
Lou's biographer and wrapped listener
casts a critical eye on Lou account
through Daniel's lens Lou emerges as a
vulnerable victim ens snared by a
manipulative creature endowed with a
myriad of captivating Powers many
meticulously honed for seduction Daniel
perceives Louie as tragically naive and
snared in a dance with lart that
embodies the essence of predator and
prey a dynamic punctuated by a
staggering Chasm of power in a poignant
exchange when Loui confides in Daniel
suggesting that his entanglement with
lart was both mutual and equitably
poised
Daniel retorts with a biting to the
shame of queer theorists everywhere I
got in that coffin of my own free
will in the quiet
dark we were equals in Daniel's
discernment intertwining Notions of
dominance vampirism mortality and the
shadow of death with the threads of
queerness and passion is at best jarring
juxtaposition if not profoundly
derogatory white Master black student
but equal in the quiet dark while
Daniel's perspective isn't devoid of
validity it stems from an external
Viewpoint he lacks the intimate
experiences that molded Louie Daniel has
never grappled with the complexities of
being gay he doesn't carry the weight of
being a person of color and despite
Louis's vivid descriptions the depths of
Despair and vulnerability felt by a
black queer man in the clutches of Jim
Crow era South elude Daniel's grasp
observing The Narrative unfold and
immersing oneself in Louis Journey
offers a window into his psyche
Illuminating his motivations and choices
throughout the first season we saw why
he was drawn to lat and why he thought
he could never leave him that intimacy
might never be replaced but he takes his
chances eventually while sex and
intimacy are inextricably linked to
queer identity so too are power and
Rebellion queerness represents
resilience in a realm that often wishes
your existence away inter view
intensifies this struggle just opposing
the supernatural with the societal it
brings into sharp Focus the world's
potential for harm and the sheer will it
demands to thrive within it perhaps
being a gay vampire engaged in nefarious
activities isn't optimal yet it offers
Louis a truer reflection of himself far
more than the Mortal realm ever could in
Interview with the Vampire the book the
movie and now the TV show we witnessed
the Inception of a trans formative era
for vampire literature and the vampire
archetype in the 21st century lat Louie
and Arman the central characters of the
ongoing vampire Chronicles emerge as
queer vampires who rice and her literary
descendants employ to break free of the
cycle of functioning as a cautionary
tale as luck would have it there is a
measurable element of tracking Rice's
impact on the public perception and
expectation of vampires and that being
how we went from this
to
this see
me see me
now Dracula no this wasn't an Omission
because it's been done and analyzed to
death but tracking the progress and
development of vampires in the last 200
years as per the extra canonical
depictions of the count particularly in
the context of whether or not they're
serving goosi B but busy is just busy is
something we can do here because for all
the plethora versions of Dracula several
of these variations penned by Bram
Stoker himself Francis Ford copel as
Bram Stoker's Dracula henceforth
referred to as cop's Dracula to avoid
confusion was a unique furry Awakening I
mean a unique sensual depiction of this
titular Transylvanian recluse even in
the book Dracula is never as explicitly
seductive as he is with Gary Oldman and
wiona Ryder ey [ __ ] each other on the
orian streets of England Bram Stoker
himself was arguably gay and the figure
of Dracula was inspired by an
emotionally distant employer of his and
while it is widely accepted that there
is an abundance of subtext to be read
into the exchanges of Jonathan Harker
and Count Dracula the film does not
elaborate on
them
mostly fun fact that was improvised Gary
Oldman was chronically Sauced on set and
it was scripted that Dracula had cut
Hawker Gary just went and licked it up
and ended up slicing his tongue open in
the process meanwhile that's the most
unsettling shot in the entire movie not
the most memorable because other
elements of the book that had either
been subtext or alluded to are included
yes Lucy is a bit of a [ __ ] and we love
her for that though I'm grateful that
stoker framed her death as not a
punishment for her promiscuity but as a
tragic turn of someone malevolently
exploiting her for it Dracula's more
Fant fantastic Powers such as his shape
shifting are plainly depicted Stoker's
Illusions to Vlad the Impaler are
confirmed and Copa expands on the
relationship between Dracula and Mina
inserting a subplot around the long
forlorn Romance the novel itself was a
little bit subversive aside from Jona
ship name and the band of vampire
Hunters being too gay to function most
notably among them the Texan I mean if
your name is Quincy then you can blame
your parents for your homosexuality
however it stands out from other
Adventure literature of the time that
only one of the group to make any
Headway is a woman Mina For Whom the men
in the cast chronically fuss over her
delicate feminine sensibilities Copa
also includes stronger religious
overtones to boot again the significant
element here is how readily Copa depicts
a Dracula who [ __ ] whereas Dracula has
been more prominently depicted as a
reclusive humanoid monster from
nuratu plan nine from outer space
Salem's Lot the last voice voage of the
demer this figure has almost exclusively
been painted white and shown with
clownishly monstrous features but Copa
creates a monster For Whom the audience
looks at and completely understands what
Mina is so horny about perhaps due to
Dracula's capacity to shift forms
between beautiful and hideous man and
wolf Copa is depicting a visile range of
duplicity the vampire's speciality and
that wouldn't be an inaccurate reading
were it not for the fact that Mina's
feelings for him persist even as she
sees him at his most monstrous coupled
with the fact that cop's Dracula depicts
him as a tragic figure whose shunning of
God's light was spurned by a broken
heart and then turned to Vengeance that
draws him closer to Rice's influence
however a lot happened between cop's
Dracula and the recent television
depiction of Lou lat Armand and Claudia
which beckons the
question what happened with that
Stephanie Meer thing
okay sure the vampires were sparkly for
some reason apparently there was a scene
from the book Maya saw in a dream where
Edward was sparkling in the Sun and she
built the whole damn story around that
for some reason that just
screamed vampire to her I guess and sure
St and patson rubbed a lot of hopeful
actors the wrong way for how quick they
were to mock can insult the franchise
that gave them careers however between
them and Taylor LNO who's getting work
in Oscar nominations these days and we
could talk about Twilight and why it
sucks but we need to protect our mental
health we can analyze it to death and
because of a Mormon riter evoking
imagery of a teenager who has sex once
gets pregnant and almost dies because of
it but I I swear I I've done this
before I've talked about this
before have I so if rice made vampires
sexy Maya seemed to make
them romantic I don't even know what to
call them because the degree to which
the central romance exhibits abusive
traits is unsettling to killing stalking
proportions romantic is probably a good
word if for no other reason than
describing the way Edward and his Undead
supermodel friends were intended to be
seen they are certainly romance novel
cover boys what was the cause for this
craze in our culture though and how did
this affect the vampire Mythos to answer
the second question first it it didn't
have any effect at least not in the long
term though at the time Twilight sees
the endrin systems of teenage girls like
nothing else the fervor for this book
series was at a fever pitch of intensity
we haven't seen since and was not
dissimilar to that wizard book which is
our Sean Steelers they use it to make
magnets even before the movies Twilight
generated a veritable Pacific trash
island of merchandise revolving around
the team Edward Team Jacob love triangle
Twilight's weird popularity coincided
with an incredibly weird point in
history and it's very consequentially
American see America is a magical place
where roughly every eight years the
culture economy and national identity
shifts in radical ways and nobody knows
why well we do it seems that for some
reason the president of the United
States and the values of him and his
cohorts have a profound effects on
Shifting the inherent sensibilities of
the people of the nation at large and
this is very clearly exemplified by the
the transition of power from the Clinton
Administration to the Bush
Administration Bill Clinton may have
made some empty promises to the queer
Community Lots however there was a
building momentum towards rights
development and then George Bush
committed voter fraud in Florida and
suddenly PTA groups that had once been
developing a comfort with gay friends
and neighbors under Clinton those same
people decided that perhaps a gay gym
teacher or scout leader were a threat to
their
children Bush's America is the first
right-wing Evangelical president was
rooted heavily in purity-based
values one thing that mystifies me about
people living in America is how they
can't see that even if the president
does not explicitly make something part
of their political agenda it somehow
ends up coming down into the whole
culture for a Whole Decade in this case
a very loud discourse around pushing for
abstinence only sexual education in
schools not only that but projecting
those Purity standards to adults as well
reeling back from The Echoes of the
sexual Revolution that were redeveloping
in the 1990s bushes America turned in
the opposite direction
weirdly this would have been R for a
reinvention of ye old Victorian vampires
where sex is bad and vampires are bad
because they have sex however this
wouldn't be possible because an Rice's
vampire Chronicles has since become a
global sensation for depicting vampires
as tragic misunderstood and empathetic
anti-heroes in conjunction the 1994 film
adaptation was still a game Cher for the
careers of Brad Pit Tom Cruz and Kiron
Dunst even if an rice had at the time
renounced the darkness and began a brief
foyer back into Catholicism though that
didn't last long vampires in so far as
they were able to be fully developed
characters could not be exclusively
villainous anymore so Twilight hit a
peak of popularity when it appealed to
the darker edio fantasies of teenagers
while at the same time having a
presentation that the Purity Brigade
would give a stamp of approval to
Twilight could maintain the illusion of
sexuality without engaging with it in a
meaningful way however for this reason
Meer divorced herself from the core
philosophy of vampires which only begins
at the sparkling thing in the X-Men
powers that dominate the latter half of
the series vampires as we can identify
them traditionally Focus around sexual
Liberation for which the author and
Society May moralize that as good or bad
and because Myers Mormon vampires I feel
like that needs to be an episode of what
we do in the shadows Mormon vampires
come knocking on your door are divorced
from sex they are divorced from sexual
deviancy which as per creative license
isn't a bad thing what's puzzling to me
is why the public chose to accept this
depiction of vampires that was so far
removed from identifiable depictions for
unfortunately these narrative decisions
pushed queer people further out of the
genre that we very much built as
creators and subjects which was also a
strong component of Bush's personal
belief system which he desperately tried
to turn into policy no gaze how boring
for which institutional discrimination
was the principal topic for True Blood
based on the southern vampire Mysteries
True Blood in the least Tolan way
possible turned vampires into onetoone
allegories for the queer community at
its core True Blood was more than just a
vampire drama it was a powerful platform
that explored societal prejudices civil
rights and the intricacies of identity
in a way that resonated deeply with the
queer Community not just because of the
hot men from the onset True Blood used
phrases like coming out of the coffin
for vampires revealing their existence
to humans mirrored in the real world
experience of coming out the vampires
fight for civil rights recognition and
acceptance in human society is
reminiscent of the real world struggles
faced by the queer Community this
allegory made the vampires cause
relatable and provided a unique
perspective on societal prejudices and
the fight for equality the cultural
nature of the series allowed for an
exploration of sexuality that goes
beyond traditional binaries several
characters including some vampires
demonstrate fluid sexual preferences
this fluidity in True Blood reflects the
evolving understanding of sexuality in
our real world where labels become less
rigid and more people acknowledge the
spectrum of sexual orientations True
Blood walks so Elite could dimensionally
transcend it's porn with cinematography
a running theme in the series is the
fear of that which is different or
misunderstood the animosity many humans
feel toward vampires and True Blood is
not dissimilar to the fear or distrust
some individuals Harbor toward the queer
Community to this this day The
Fellowship of the Sun an extremist
anti-vampire Church in the series
provides a Critical examination of how
religion can be weaponized against
marginalized groups the church's zealous
Crusade against vampires draws a
parallel to the real world religious
entities that condemn and persecute
lgbtq plus individuals based on dogmatic
beliefs throughout True Blood vampires
rally for the V the vampire Rights
Amendment which would grant them equal
rights as humans this political backdrop
mirrors the very real battle for queer
rights from Marriage equality to
anti-discrimination laws the series
juxtaposes The visceral emotions of the
vampire characters with these political
movements emphasizing the human or
vampire faces behind the issues for many
characters their journey in the series
is one of self-acceptance just as Jason
Stackhouse grapples with his attraction
to vampires perhaps even male ones or
terara thoron comes to terms with her
own sexuality many queer individuals
wrestle with with internalized
prejudices before they can fully accept
themselves these let's say fictional
characters and creatures say a lot about
our society especially those considered
the least Among Us from the monsters of
Y to the dangerous foreigners of the 17
and 1800s to the sexual predators of the
1900s and then the Sparkles and civil
rights allegories of the 2000s but what
does it say about our
society
today
the mass acceptance of the Staten Island
vampires signal more than just a
spiritual victory of the rights fights
shown in True Blood but rather an
indication that in spite of widespread
political and institutional persecution
we seem to be finding acceptance on a
societal level that we did not have
before we meaning queer people but also
we meaning the sex positive earlier
queer leaders in the 60s and 70s sought
to use the sexual Revolution to justify
the advancement of queer rights if the
stigma is removed from sex itself then
there is little ground for persecuting
one for whom they have sex with consent
provided of course the victorians would
not see the comedy and what we do in the
shadows because of the focus on a need
for poetic justice of those who
knowingly live outside of God's light we
don't want to see these vampires
punished even if they are kind of shitty
people sometimes instead we Champion
their personhood and even their small
victories over Petty Stu for who Among
Us has not had the dream of starting a
vampire nightclub or even just had a
hard time looking for love without
realizing that what you were looking for
was there all along to accept the
vampire in their traditional form as is
often presented and what we do in the
shadows is to accept the full spectrum
of what they were meant to traditionally
signify no longer does the sex positive
vampire require Poetic Justice near a
stake to the heart nor a decapitation
and consuming only a consensual amount
of garlic for what threat did Carmela
really afford to anyone if not the
occasional snatching of panties to our
forebearers in Antiquity the real threat
was of Sex and the seduction though
specifically sex that defied the typical
Norms of patriarchal power dynamics the
man who is penetrated by another man the
woman who can exchange intimacy without
a man the real evil of vampires was
their affinity for challenging the
conventional power structure
rures the murder thing was just icing
but the fear the real fear was sex
itself by no longer fearing the vampire
are we shedding a fear of sex or are we
too as a people abandoning the
patriarchal structures that so much of
History constructed itself
around if this is the moral Decay the
victorians feared so much Society does
not seem worse off for it if anything
Society is worse for enduring the
throngs of violence against the vampiric
the Deviant women
queers sexuality has come out of the
closet no longer are we forced to hide
in the shadows just because we're not
having sex to make the next generation
of good God-fearing
Christians dim lamp light has turned
into livid LEDs brightening up the lives
of the sex positive for the whole world
to see if they want and whether they
like it most do or not [ __ ] them we're
not turning those lights
off we don't have to
hide what we do in the
shadows
anymore trust me gay is in gay is hot I
want some gay gay it's going to
be
oh
a
yeah